docs/javascript/RHINO3DM-BUILD.JS.md, before:

# rhino3dm.js build instructions
### Get the Source

If the pre-compiled libraries above do not work in your situation, you can compile the libraries from their source, the repo uses OpenNURBS as a submodule, so you need to run a couple more git commands after you have cloned. `cd` into the new repository directory and run

```commandline
git submodule update --init
```

## Required Tools

Compiling *rhino3dm.js* can be done on macOS, Linux and Windows (via [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10)). The following tools are required...

* [Python](https://www.python.org/) 2 (>2.17.12) or 3 (> 3.6.9)
* [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org/) - See Emscripten's [Getting started guide](https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html#platform-notes-installation-instructions-sdk) or WebAssembly's [Developer's Guide](https://webassembly.org/getting-started/developers-guide/) .
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/) (>3.12.2) - _**Note:** The version of CMake distributed with Ubuntu 18.04 LTS isn't new enough so you'll have to [build it from source](https://cmake.org/install/). This may also be true for other package managers._

⭐️ _**TIP**: A great way to get a build environment that's ready to go for building rhino3dm.js is to use a [Dev Container](#dev-container) in VS Code!_ 🐳

## Scripts

A number of scripts are used to setup and build rhino3dm:

- *script/bootstrap.py* - checks for (and downloads) the required tools
- *script/setup.py* - generates the platform-specific project files using CMake
- *script/cibuild.py* - builds the library project(s)

These scripts support Python 2 and 3 on Windows (linux subsystem), macOS, or Linux (Ubuntu).

### bootstrap.py

The `script/bootstrap.py` script can be used to check your system for (and, in some cases, download) the necessary tools for a specific build target.  For example, you can run:

```bash
$ python3 bootstrap.py --platform js
```

to check for all the tools needed to build the javascript version of rhino3dm.

### setup.py

The _setup.py_ script uses CMake to generate the make files necessary to build the project.  These projects are generated into _build/javascript_ folder.  To setup a JavaScript build, you can run:

```bash
$ python3 setup.py --platform js --verbose
```

### build.py

The _build.py_ script run `make` to build the _rhino3dm.js_ and _rhino3dm.wasm_ files to the _build/javascript/artifacts\_js_ folder.  To build, run:

```bash
$ python3 build.py --platform js --verbose --overwrite
```

The build might take a few minutes, but if everything is configured correctly you should now have _rhino3dm.js_ and _rhino3dm.wasm_ in the _build/javascript/artifacts\_js_ folder.  The script also copies these files to the _docs/javascript/samples/resources_ folder where they can be used for testing.  

## Test

* `cd` to the `docs/javascript/samples` folder.

* Type `python3 -m http.server`. This will run a simple web server which serves files in the artifacts directory

* Go to your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080/rhino3dm.html`

* For chrome, right click and select `inspect`. Click on the `console` tab and try typing in the following javascript:
  
```js
> sphere = new _rhino3dm.Sphere([1,2,3], 12);
> brep = sphere.toBrep();
> jsonobject = brep.encode();
```

## Dev Container

Getting the toolchain set up for building rhino3dm.js can be painful. Visual Studio Code can help by using a preconfigured Docker container as a development environment. There are two options (assuming you already have Docker installed and running)...

1. Open the project in VS Code and run the **Remote-Containers: Reopen Folder in Container** command to start a container with the Emscripten toolchain set up and the current directory mapped to a volume.
1. Alternatively, for slightly faster build times (I/O between the container and the host filesystem can slow things down), open VS Code and run the **Remote-Containers: Clone Repository in Container Volume...** command. Enter `mcneel/rhino3dm` in the input box and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. Note, that if you need to copy any files from the container volume to the host filesystem, you can right-click on them in the Explorer side bar and choose _Download_.

In both cases, once VS Code has relaunched you may need to open a new terminal (**Terminal** > **New Terminal**). This terminal will be running inside the container and that's where you'll run the [setup](#setuppy) and [build](#buildpy) scripts.

## Related Topics

- [Current Development Tools](../../Current%20Development%20Tools.md) - This file (which is used by bootstrap) lists the current build tools and versions we have tested with.

Commit message:

Add explanation for setting up Emscripten environment before running the scripts.

docs/javascript/RHINO3DM-BUILD.JS.md, after:

# rhino3dm.js build instructions
### Get the Source

If the pre-compiled libraries above do not work in your situation, you can compile the libraries from their source, the repo uses OpenNURBS as a submodule, so you need to run a couple more git commands after you have cloned. `cd` into the new repository directory and run

```commandline
git submodule update --init
```

## Required Tools

Compiling *rhino3dm.js* can be done on macOS, Linux and Windows (via [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10)). The following tools are required...

* [Python](https://www.python.org/) 2 (>2.17.12) or 3 (> 3.6.9)
* [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org/) - See Emscripten's [Getting started guide](https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html#platform-notes-installation-instructions-sdk) or WebAssembly's [Developer's Guide](https://webassembly.org/getting-started/developers-guide/) .
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/) (>3.12.2) - _**Note:** The version of CMake distributed with Ubuntu 18.04 LTS isn't new enough so you'll have to [build it from source](https://cmake.org/install/). This may also be true for other package managers._

⭐️ _**TIP**: A great way to get a build environment that's ready to go for building rhino3dm.js is to use a [Dev Container](#dev-container) in VS Code!_ 🐳

## Scripts

A number of scripts are used to setup and build rhino3dm:

- *script/bootstrap.py* - checks for (and downloads) the required tools
- *script/setup.py* - generates the platform-specific project files using CMake
- *script/cibuild.py* - builds the library project(s)

These scripts support Python 2 and 3 on Windows (linux subsystem), macOS, or Linux (Ubuntu).

### Before running scripts

You have to make sure that Emscripten environment is set up. On windows it can be done by running `emsdk_env.bat` before running the scripts.

### bootstrap.py

The `script/bootstrap.py` script can be used to check your system for (and, in some cases, download) the necessary tools for a specific build target.  For example, you can run:

```bash
$ python3 bootstrap.py --platform js
```

to check for all the tools needed to build the javascript version of rhino3dm.

### setup.py

The _setup.py_ script uses CMake to generate the make files necessary to build the project.  These projects are generated into _build/javascript_ folder.  To setup a JavaScript build, you can run:

```bash
$ python3 setup.py --platform js --verbose
```

### build.py

The _build.py_ script run `make` to build the _rhino3dm.js_ and _rhino3dm.wasm_ files to the _build/javascript/artifacts\_js_ folder.  To build, run:

```bash
$ python3 build.py --platform js --verbose --overwrite
```

The build might take a few minutes, but if everything is configured correctly you should now have _rhino3dm.js_ and _rhino3dm.wasm_ in the _build/javascript/artifacts\_js_ folder.  The script also copies these files to the _docs/javascript/samples/resources_ folder where they can be used for testing.  

## Test

* `cd` to the `docs/javascript/samples` folder.

* Type `python3 -m http.server`. This will run a simple web server which serves files in the artifacts directory

* Go to your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080/rhino3dm.html`

* For chrome, right click and select `inspect`. Click on the `console` tab and try typing in the following javascript:
  
```js
> sphere = new _rhino3dm.Sphere([1,2,3], 12);
> brep = sphere.toBrep();
> jsonobject = brep.encode();
```

## Dev Container

Getting the toolchain set up for building rhino3dm.js can be painful. Visual Studio Code can help by using a preconfigured Docker container as a development environment. There are two options (assuming you already have Docker installed and running)...

1. Open the project in VS Code and run the **Remote-Containers: Reopen Folder in Container** command to start a container with the Emscripten toolchain set up and the current directory mapped to a volume.
1. Alternatively, for slightly faster build times (I/O between the container and the host filesystem can slow things down), open VS Code and run the **Remote-Containers: Clone Repository in Container Volume...** command. Enter `mcneel/rhino3dm` in the input box and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. Note, that if you need to copy any files from the container volume to the host filesystem, you can right-click on them in the Explorer side bar and choose _Download_.

In both cases, once VS Code has relaunched you may need to open a new terminal (**Terminal** > **New Terminal**). This terminal will be running inside the container and that's where you'll run the [setup](#setuppy) and [build](#buildpy) scripts.

## Related Topics

- [Current Development Tools](../../Current%20Development%20Tools.md) - This file (which is used by bootstrap) lists the current build tools and versions we have tested with.
